# More-than-human values in food justice and sustainability
Co-designing a sustainable food justice system with blockchain futures

Our project takes an algorithmic approach to creating a sustainable food justice system. Food justice is a paradigm case for algorithmic justice because it has three clearly defined problems that will be tractable to an algorithmic approach. The first is about the need to create a more-than-human value system, because an exclusive focus on human benefit is driving an unsustainable food system. The second is about finding ways to sustain the food commons because the global corporate food system creates, through extractions and enclosures, food injustices. Thirdly, we need to ensure that algorithmic approaches are inclusive or we risk intensifying exclusions and inequalities within the food system. The project involves a series of workshops with grassroots urban agricultural communities in London to co-design sustainable food justice futures through blockchain using a speculative participatory design approach that we have developed, tested and synthesised. We will develop blockchain prototypes for what a more-than-human value system for the food commons might look like. We will also develop a method that synthesises best practice for co-designing blockchain solutions with diverse, marginalised and non-technical citizens in order to incorporate inclusivity in our algorithmic approach. We focus on blockchain with its potential to interject in the relations between actors through, for example, tokenisation, smart contracts and distributed autonomous organisations (DAOs), leading to radical regulation and redistribution of power. Such blockchain facets offer the basis for creating new value systems and embedding the interests of non-humans such as seeds, soil and water into algorithmic systems.

In these ways the project takes a novel approach to reconfiguring food, blockchain, and values to create more sustainable, inclusive and just futures. Outputs include a website, a printed booklet, and a CHI paper, to raise awareness about, and open up new possibilities for, algorithmic solutions to a sustainable food justice system.

The more-than-human values project is funded through the [Not-Equal Network+](https://not-equal.tech/).
